All right.
It's time to talk about layout.
Now we already learned how
will layout works in Bootstrap.
And we talked about why
Bootstrap became so popular.
Now don't worry.
Later on in the course I'm going to
introduce you to topics like CSS Grid
and actually talk about really
easy ways to do layout on a page.
But for now we want us to use Bootstrap
because that's what we learned.
And I'm warning you this is
going to seem very overwhelming.
I want to show you how
Bootstrap does layout because
down the road when I introduce
you to things like CSS Grid
you're going to see how much easier we have
it now than we had maybe a few years ago
But I still want you to learn how layout is
done in Bootstrap because you will encounter it
throughout your career.
Now if you go to the layout section
on the Bootstrap documentation
you see over here that it has
some pretty good information.
We can look at the grids and we've
already talked about how grid
works with Bootstrap.
Now the first thing we want to do is to
have a container and then maybe some rows
that we can use columns on.
So if we go back to our page and
we open up the "index.html" file.
The first thing I want
to do around the body.
And one thing I'll do with my Sublime Text
here is actually minimize the head tag here
just so we can see a little bit.
So I'm going to just click
on this and look at that!
It's minimized so I can
just focus on the body.
The first thing I want to do is
say that I want to create a "div"
with a class of "container".
Just like that.
And then we'll close this right over here.
So let's indent that properly.
Let's save and refresh. Allright
we have everything in a container.
Next is that we want to ideally
all of these things to be in a row.
So we want the "h1" the "hr" and
the "button" to just be a row
one row that we have that is
in the center of the page.
So I'm just going to wrap this in a "div"
and give it a class of "row" so
once again let's close the "div"
and indent this again.
If I refresh
not much has changed we may have lost the "hr"
we'll get back to that in a second but we
have a "row" now. So that if I inspect
let's say view developer tools
and I click on this inspect
I see, well, these elements.
If I go over here and let's open this up.
Make this a little bit smaller.
We see that we have the "body" we have
the "div" which is the "container"
and then we have the "row" right here.
All right let me close this.
Let's divide up these items
into different sections.
We have the "header"
element that we can use.
And this header element will
contain the "h1" over here.
So we have the "header" and one thing that
we can use with Bootstrap is a class called
"text-center" and "text-center"
as you might guess.
If I refresh
centers the text.
So that's great.
That's our "header" element.
And we also want to create
another section here.
Let's call it "section".
So this is a "section" element
and this section element will
also have the class "text-center".
So if I refresh.
There you go.
We got our "hr" horizontal line back.
Hmm.
Why isn't this center?
Let's inspect this and find out.
So I can open developer tools by pressing
CMD+OPT+I
or CTRL+SHIFT+I
if you're on a windows
and let's look at the elements we
have the "container" we have the "row"
we have the "header" and
then we have the "section".
Mm hmm.
Now we see over here that these
ones aren't taking up the full width
as we would want of the container.
And we've seen this before with Bootstrap.
Right.
We have to use this columns to tell it hey
we want to contain or expand along the call
and because Bootstrap uses a 12 grid system we can
just say in here in the header we want the column
12 grid and then for the section
we want the column 12 grid.
So if I refresh. There you go!
Look at that!
If I go over here I see
that we have the "row"
we have the "header" and then we have
the text which as you can see contains
the full amount of the container in
the blue. That's looking a lot better.
That's great.
Now if I close this. Hmm!
Our text and button it's still at the top.
Ideally it's in the middle of the image.
How can we fix this?
Now this part is really really tricky.
If I actually search
vertical alignment here
you'll see that Bootstrap has
some vertical alignment options
but these ones are using inline,
inline-block, inline-table
which is actually not the recommended way.
Now the way we're going to do
this is we're going to use flex.
And this is a new feature with Bootstrap.
Because they're using the flexbox
utilities that we've learned about.
Right.
So if I go over here you can see that
I can activate the flexbox system
by using the "d-flex" class.
So if I copy this and go to container
and say "d-flex" if I refresh.
All right.
Nothing happened because
we've just enabled flexbox.
But now we want to make
sure that we can place
things vertically in the center
and this if we scroll down is what
we want right here "align-items".
If we look over here it's
"align-items-center".
So if I copy this which is this one over
here and we add "align-items-center".
If I refresh.
This isn't working and
this is a little tricky.
And I'm showing you this just to
understand how to debug things.
So let's say you just did
this and for some reason
You don't understand why this isn't
working on the documentation page.
Clearly it shows us that this should
be working. Well we can inspect.
So let's right click inspect and
have a look at our HTML page.
We have the container and then the body.
Now you see here how
everything is in the container.
And as a matter of fact
If we look at the container we're actually
aligning items in the center because
the container is actually
not the full page.
It's only the top part.
Right.
It's just this part.
So here the container is
not fully covering the page.
So what we need to do
just like we have in body if we look at style
here you see how we have height of 100%.
All we need to do is tell the container that
hey I want you to span the entire height
of the page and then Bootstrap
we can do that by saying "h-100"
instead of adding the CSS stuff.
If I save this and refresh.
Look at that!
If I hover.
You'll see that my container is
now the full length of the page
and our writing is right in the middle.
If I scroll up or down look at
that it's adjusting properly.
Everything is centered.
That's great!
Now don't worry if this takes
you a long time to figure out.
Sometimes it involves googling
around figure things out
Like it said later on in the
CSS layout section of the course
I'll actually show you how
to make this so much simpler.
Now the last thing I want
to do is well right here
I want to have a bit of space
between the writing and the button.
So what can we do here?
I want to another section
in between these two
to hopefully buffer them away
from each other so we can
create that fairly easily.
We can just add a new div and we'll give
it a class here of "buffer" that we'll
have to write ourselves.
In this buffer class will be in between
the header and then the horizontal line
and the button.
So let's also give this a column of 12.
Because we want to make sure
that it covers the entire area.
But right now there's nothing.
If I right click here and inspect.
You'll see here that I have the buffer
but the buffer doesn't have anything.
It's completely empty because
well there's nothing inside here.
But we can add a style let's say ".buffer".
In this "buffer" will have a
height of what should we say.
Well if I do let's say "50px" and I refresh.
Look at that! I get a nice little buffer.
So now if I scroll over to buffer you
see that I have a 50px height buffer.
But I always like using "rem"
instead of "px"s so let's do "rem".
Let's see what "5rem" means.
All right.
That's good.
Maybe a little bit more.
Let's do "10rem". Let's save and refresh.
All right.
That looks actually quite nice.
If I close this down open it up.
Yeah.
Look at that.
Now looks really really nice.
And there we go.
We have our startup
landing page right here.
Everything looks pretty nice right.
And the way we've organized
things seems pretty clean.
Our button is well when
we hover available but
whenever I click on this
button nothing's happening.
Ideally we have a new page that opens up
so that we can enter or our
customers can enter their e-mails.
And this is the exciting part that
we're going to get to in the next video.
I'll see in that one. Bye bye.